With all of that, we saw the core features of the new cli
but one important and interesting feature is missing.
Back in the terminal, let's
run vue ui because the new vue cli actually has a graphical user interface which can use, this command
starts it and should automatically open up a tab in the browser which hosts it,
if not, you can visit this page to see it
and this is what it looks like.
This is a graphical manager and which basically gives you access to the same commands we ran from within
the command line
but now with this nice interface, here you can see existing projects you created,
I have none,
so this is basically vue create and there, you got your file system where you can navigate around.
So in there, you could navigate into a folder where you want to create a new project,
you can also by the way favorite that path so that you can always quickly access that folder in the
future,
you can then create a new subfolder if you want, show hidden folders and then in the end, create a new
project as you can see.
You can then define a name for the folder which will be created like vue cli ui, choose the package
manager you want to use for managing the dependencies in a project,
if you only got npm installed you will only use that but if you have yarn, you have the choice, you have
the alternative there. You can choose if you want to override that folder if it already exists and you can
decide if you are using git if you want to initialize this already. Now with that if we click on next, we go to
the presets page and now we can choose to take our saved preset, the default one or use the manual
approach where we then will go to the next page
and now we can check some features
and this is exactly the same set of features we were presented in the terminal.
So here I could then enable router vuex and let's say css preprocessing, click next
again, finally here you can add some configuration for the presets, for the features you added, for the
plugins you added, this also was something you got asked when using the terminal,
now it's in here. So we can choose for the css preprocessing, which preprocessor to use, for a
linting which configuration to use and to lint on save
and then we can create the project.
We can also save this preset just as we could in the terminal or continue without saving and now this
will take a while as it will create this new folder and install all the dependencies in there.
It's up to you of course if you want to use that user interface or the terminal,
I personally find the terminal to be a bit faster for me but this of course is a bit easier to work
with
I'd argue and it's always nice to have a graphical user interface.
Now let's wait for this to finish and with it finished, this is
now the project we're in, now you can always go back by clicking on the home icon there,
now you should see a project there and there, you can go back into the project
and here you see the installed plugins, you can add a new plugin if you want
and there you can now also search,
so for example if I search for vuetify here, it finds that plugin so that's very convenient.
This is a way to find all the available plugins,
this is a registry where you can search plugins or simply browse them all of course.
And let's say I want to add that vuetify plugin again, then I can simply click on it here, install that
plugin
and now it will do that same thing it did in the terminal, download it and once it's done, it will also
ask you for the configuration that plugin needs.
So here this, I can now choose if I want to use a custom theme, no, premade template,
yes.
a la carte components, babel/polyfill, finish the installation
and this will then well execute that or install that plugin and do all these changes, apply all these
changes.
You can actually see the changes here before they are applied,
so that's really great,
you see what will change and then you can commit this here to github or you skip to just apply them.
And with that, this is now added,
we can also configure some settings here on this screen
for example the base URL,
these are also things you could do from within the cli, the official docs show you a full reference
of cli commands you can run into terminal to configure an existing project.
Here you have them all on one page,
all these settings and in the last area here, you then have these commands you can run. So you can build
it, you can serve it, you can lint it, inspect is an extra command which let's you look into the webpack
config you're using in the project, vue inspect would be the terminal command you could have also
executed
and overall, I can only encourage you to play around with that and to take advantage of this graphical
interface, especially for browsing available plugins.
I'd argue that this is especially useful and overall, it's a nice alternative to the terminal driven
cli and it's good to have this as it can really speed up your development process.